Agatha 0.7.0

Author: Jared Watkins <jared <at-or-about> watkins dot net>

If you like this program.. see my wishlist over at amazon... Anyone who gifts
me something will have their name added to the Acknowledgments section. 
Earn your place of glory today. =]

http://www.amazon.com/gp/registry/registry.html/102-4175228-0195360?%5Fencoding=UTF8&id=1J21CZXG6QJ44

http://www.thinkgeek.com/brain/gimme.cgi?wid=81d08db4d



  Tested with apache 1.3.x and php 4.x under linux.. This program is not 
  guaranteed to do anything but take up space on your disk..

  Also note that this was designed to be used on a private network
  I'm sure there are terrible security holes... so treat it accordingly.


  INSTALL:  Since you are reading this.. I guess you already unpacked the
            tar ball... Just move/rename this directory to whatever you like under your
            apache document root (htdocs) directory and point your browser to it. 
            All files should be readable by apache.. and the 'playlists' and 
            'sharedplaylists' directories should be writable by the apache user.

            Copy config.php.dist to config.php and edit your path and
            language file names. For security purposes.. please note that
            neither playlists nor mp3s need to be visible by your web server.

      LOCAL PLAY SETUP:

            To use the (very cool) local play features of agatha you will need
            to install a perl package. This can most easily be done via CPAN with
            the command (as root):

                   perl -MCPAN -e 'install MP3::Daemon'

            You should also be able to track it down from freshmeat:

                  http://freshmeat.net/projects/mp3-daemon/

            This perl package will also let you play music from the command
            line.  As a test to verify everything is working.. try the
            command:
   
                     mp3 play song.mp3  

            Where song.mp3 is a file from your drive...  

            If you don't hear anything... but you get no error check the
            following: 
                       - Your speakers are hooked up and working
                       - The linux volume is turned up (run aumix)

            Once it is installed and you have verified that you can play mp3s
            from the command line.. you need to make a few small changes.

            If it is running.. kill the daemon with:

                     mp3 quit

            Using your favorite text editor.. open up the file /usr/bin/mp3
            You need to change the location of the socket that the mp3daemon uses
            to something that agatha can reach... I suggest using /tmp/.mp3 as the new
            location. Look for the following line near the top.. and change it as
            I've indicated:

                      FROM:
                             my $conf_dir = "$ENV{HOME}/.mp3";

                      TO:
                             my $conf_dir = "/tmp/.mp3";

            Whatever location you use.. you will need to put the same path
            in the agatha config file.

            There are a few device files in /dev that the apache user will
            need to have permissions for.  There are many ways this can be
            done.. I'll list the easiest way here. If you have a need for
            better security in this regard I'm sure you will know the other
            ways this can be accomplished.

                 chmod o+r,o+w /dev/mixer
                 chmod o+r,o+w /dev/dsp

            That's it...  just read through the agatha config file and set a few
            paths.. there are comments in the file to help you.
            
            TROUBLESHOOTING LOCAL PLAY:
            
                *TIP* In your rc.local file put aumix -L to load the default
                      settings for the root user that you saved inside aumix
                      by hitting 'S'
                      
                If agatha is giving you socket read errors.. make sure 
                the mp3 daemon is running and that the socket is owned
                by the apache user.  I have tried to automate this.. but it
                does not always work.  So.. start the daemon as root by 
                running 'mp3 ls'  then give ownership to apache ex 
                'chown -R /tmp/.mp3'  Now try reloading agatha.  You
                should only have to do this once.. until you reboot.



  Usage: Click the song name to stream.. select several songs and click
         submit to stream the list. Or.. if 'Add to Playlist' is selected you can add the
         list of selected songs to a new or existing playlist. Edit the list by clicking
         on the white icon next to the name. Click the red symbol icon to play on the
         local server using the perl package mp3daemon.  For recursive play.. click the
         little folder icons to stream whole directories and the red icons to play on
         the server. Everything else should be fairly straight forward.





ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

Thanks to various people of irc for helping me kick around ideas.

Thanks to all those who have sent in patches, translations or
suggested improvements.



I would like to acknowledge the following people for specific contributions
of cash or goodies:

. . . Your name here . . .




CHANGELOG


  04-1-01  Changed directory encodings to base 64... it's not pretty but it was the easiest
           way to deal with all possible characters in a directory name.

  05-13-01 Fixed the playlist editing function.. you can now remove more than one song without
           screwing up your playlist.  You can also now remove a playlist from the server.

  05-29-01 Added a configuration switch for the local play feature.. is anyone using this??
  06-20-01 Added the ability to random play the stored playlists
  06-24-01 A few requested changes this time...
           Changed code to display cleaner directory names... and only display those sections for which you have
           items.. if there are no subdirectorys.. or playlists.. it does not list those blank entries
           'Select All' does not select the 'add to playlist' check box now.. since it does not actually
           select all I must (of course) rename it.. I believe in honesty in programming.
  06-25-01 Added some comments to the code.. that makes it ready for .5
  09-11-01 Added multi language support -> I need more language files
  10-12-01 Added js back buttons and tweaked mime types a bit
  10-14-01 Starting to lern new tricks... stylesheets this time
           Moved config info to a separate file
           Ready for 0.5.1


  08-11-02  Version 0.6.1 has emerged from the lab!
            Ok.. a total rewrite was in order.  There are many changes in
            this version:
            The playlist 'hole' bug is fixed
            ID3 Tags are now supported for file names and times
            Playlists are now tracked by a cookie and not your IP address
            The program can easily be embeded in another page
            Help is now included as 'alt' tags.. hover over the help icon
            Some general code clean-up and added input error checking
            I still need more language files.. translations please!

  06-19-03  Version 0.6.5 has escaped from my server!
            A few good changes in this release and lots of false starts
            and dead ends... fun for me! I've been working on this off and on
            for many months.. some new features are not quite there yet
            for various reasons. Still no recursive functions.. I tried
            I really did.. but to do this I think it's going to require a
            totally new way of handling the files and paths. I've been
            trying to come up with a meaningful way to intigrate with
            a streaming server... to offer ogg wma or other formats.. no
            go just yet though.. it all seems rather kludgy.

            - Fixed the cookie bug that popped up with some browsers

            * Shared playlists - You can optionally share your private
              playlists with the world. This is the big new feature.

            * If a subdirectory contains only one other subdirectory it
              will jump directly to it without a second click

            * You can now choose via a config option.. how much id3 data you
              want displayed. Either track times.. titles.. both or neither.
              The default is to pull track times.. but use filenames for
              song titles. If you pull titles from ID3 tags and a particular
              file does not have a title stored.. it will use the mangled
              file name instead.

  05-23-04  Version 0.7 has jumped me from behind and made off with my girl!
            Well after a healthy siesta and the discovery mp3daemon I am back!
            This version re introduces the 'play on server' support I got so
            many requests for.. only now it's done up properly.  Also in this
            version are a few recursive play options... in the end it did
            require totally changing the way I passed around path data.
            Externally those are the only two changes... but those two required
            a lot of work behind the scenes

  04-08-06  Version 0.7.1 was lost and presumed dead only to resurface at a
            bar in Tijuana!  Fixed a few small bugs related to the local
            play feature in this version.  Agatha has always been my sandbox
            and next up may be using Ajax for local play instead of constant
            frame reloads. 

  05-10-06  Version 0.7.2 Small bugfixs 
            * Mp3 file extensions are now case-insensitive... why didn't I
              catch this one earlier??

            * Fixed a bug where playing recursive directories from other
              than the top level would fail. 

  05-10-06  Version 0.7.3 Wow the same day!
            * Fixed a new but that resulted from the recursive fix.. now
              playing from multiple selection works again. 

